[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 1]]
Request for Proposal 
 
for 
 
Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Request for Proposals No.: 2026-026 
 
Issue date: August 27, 2026 
 
Submission deadline: September 30, 2026

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 2]]
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. INTRODUCTION AND SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS .................................................................. 1 
1.1 
Invitation ............................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
RFP timetable .................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Submission instructions ................................................................................................... 2 
1.4 
Communications and review of RFP ................................................................................ 3 
1.5 
Protected information ....................................................................................................... 3 
1.6 
All new information to proponents by way of addenda .................................................. 3 
1.7 
Amendment or withdrawal of proposals .......................................................................... 3 
1.8 
Proposals in English or French ........................................................................................ 3 
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE .................................................................................................................. 5 
3. EVALUATION AND CONTRACT NEGOTIATION ........................................................................... 7 
3.1  
Evaluation of proposals .................................................................................................... 7 
3.2  
Contract negotiation process ........................................................................................... 8 
3.3  
Time period for negotiations ............................................................................................ 8 
3.4  
Notification to other proponents ...................................................................................... 8 
3.5  
Debriefing .......................................................................................................................... 8 
3.6  
Procurement protest procedure ....................................................................................... 8 
4. RFP PARTICULARS ....................................................................................................................... 10 
4.1  
Statement of work ........................................................................................................... 10 
4.2 
Contract term ................................................................................................................... 12 
4.3 
Mandatory submission requirements ............................................................................ 12 
4.4  
Mandatory criteria ........................................................................................................... 12 
4.5  
Rated criteria ................................................................................................................... 13 
4.6 
Price evaluation method ................................................................................................. 14 
APPENDIX A. SUBMISSION FORM ................................................................................................. 16 
APPENDIX B. MANDATORY CRITERIA RESPONSE FORM ............................................................. 19 
APPENDIX C. MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS RESPONSE FORM............................ 19 
APPENDIX D. RATED CRITERIA RESPONSE FORM ......................................................................... 19 
APPENDIX E. PRICING FORM .......................................................................................................... 19 
APPENDIX F. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE QUESTIONNAIRE ........................ 19 
APPENDIX G. FORM OF AGREEMENT............................................................................................. 19

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 3]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 1  
 
1. INTRODUCTION AND SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 
 
1.1 
Invitation 
 
This request for proposal (RFP) issued by the Bank of Canada is an invitation to submit non-binding offers for 
talent, learning and organizational development services as further described in section 4. RFP Particulars. 
 
Proponents may submit a proposal for one or more of the service categories: 
 
• 
Service category 1: Learning and Development Programs and Assessments  
• 
Service category 2: HR Advisory 
• 
Service category 3: Facilitation and Team Effectiveness 
 
Proponents must clearly identify in their proposal the specific service category(ies) for which they are 
submitting. 
 
Established by the Bank of Canada Act, the Bank of Canada (“the Bank”) is Canada’s central bank and, under 
the Bank of Canada Act, is responsible for formulating and implementing monetary policy and acting as fiscal 
agent on behalf of the Government of Canada. Its primary responsibilities can be grouped into five broad 
functions: monetary policy, currency, the financial system, funds management and regulatory oversight. 
 
The Bank has a duty, in accordance with the Official Languages Act, to ensure that members of the public as well 
as its employees can communicate with and obtain services from its staff in either official language.  
 
The Bank is committed to integrating best practices, tools and resources that will help guide us in assessing and 
making choices that address environmental, social and governance factors in the Bank’s procurements. The Bank 
supports enterprise-level initiatives in greening, Reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples, accessibility, and 
diversity and inclusion, and these factors may be considered in the evaluation process. 
 
Additional information on the Bank of Canada can be found at bankofcanada.ca. 
 
1.2 
RFP timetable 
 
Issue Date of RFP 
August 27, 2026 
Deadline for questions  
September 10, 2026; 11:59:00pm EST via Merx.com official time clock 
Final date for issuing addenda 
September 21, 2026 
Submission deadline  
September 30, 2026; by 11:59:00pm EST via Merx.com official time clock 
Rectification period 
Two (2) days 
Presentations  
Service Category 1: Week of October 26 
Service Category 3: Week of November 2  
The RFP timetable is tentative only and may be changed by the Bank at any time. Proposals submitted after the 
submission deadline will be rejected. 
 
Following the submission deadline, a rectification period may be provided at the discretion of the Bank. During 
this period, proponents may be notified of minor administrative or technical deficiencies in their proposals and 
given an opportunity to correct, clarify or provide missing information that does not materially alter the substance 
of the proposal. 
 
• 
The rectification period is not an opportunity to revise pricing, change key deliverables or make substantive

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 4]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 2  
modifications to the original submission. 
• 
All rectifications must be submitted by the deadline specified in the rectification notice. 
• 
Failure to respond within the allotted time may result in the proposal being deemed non-compliant or 
disqualified. 
 
1.3 
Submission instructions 
 
Proponents must submit their proposals electronically through the MERX Canadian public tenders electronic 
bidding system accessible at https://www.merx.com/ (MERX). Submissions by other methods will not be 
accepted. 
 
Each proponent is solely responsible for ensuring that it: 
 
(a) has registered and created an account on MERX and has the appropriate software interface that allows the 
proponent to access and download RFP documentation and submit a proposal; and 
(b) checks MERX frequently for any revision, addition, deletion or amendment to relevant RFP documentation. 
 
The Bank will not be responsible for any technical issues affecting the proponent’s communications with MERX. 
The Bank may reject any proposal where documents cannot be opened or legibly viewed. 
 
In the event of a confirmed malfunction technical issue with the MERX site or platform, the Bank may, in its sole 
discretion, extend the submission deadline or reissue the RFP. For assistance in using MERX, please contact 
MERX directly at 1-800-964-MERX or visit the MERX website.  
 
Proponents must submit proposals electronically through MERX by the submission deadline. Uploading large 
documents may take significant time, depending on file size and internet connection speed. It is strongly 
recommended that proponents review the MERX system instructions well in advance of the submission deadline 
and allow sufficient time to upload documents and finalize their submissions. Proponents making submissions 
near the submission deadline do so at their own risk. The determination of whether a proposal has been submitted 
on or before the submission deadline will be based solely on the time and date recorded in MERX. Proposals will 
not be accepted after the submission deadline. 
 
Proponents must submit one electronic copy of their proposal in the format specified on MERX and must include 
the relevant Appendix forms listed below:  
 
Appendix 
Title of appendix 
Appendix A 
Submission form 
Appendix B1 
Mandatory criteria response form – Learning and development programs and assessments 
Appendix B2 
Mandatory criteria response form – HR advisory 
Appendix B3 
Mandatory criteria response form – Facilitation team effectiveness 
Appendix C1  
Minimum qualification requirements – Learning and development programs and 
assessments 
Appendix C2 
Minimum qualification requirements – HR advisory 
Appendix C3 
Minimum qualification requirements – Facilitation team effectiveness 
Appendix D1  
Rated criteria response form – Learning and development programs and assessments 
Appendix D2 
Rated criteria response form – HR advisory 
Appendix D3 
Rated criteria response form – Facilitation team effectiveness 
Appendix E 
Pricing form 
Appendix F 
Environmental, social and governance questionnaire  
Appendix G 
Form of agreement

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 5]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 3  
 
** Proponents must only include pricing information in Appendix E: Pricing form. ** 
 
1.4 
Communications and review of RFP 
 
The Bank of Canada contacts for purposes of this RFP will be: 
 
Bank of Canada contact:  
 
Vanessa Lavoie 
Email:   
 
 
 
VLavoie@bank-banque-canada.ca  
 
Bank of Canada secondary contact:  
Lorette Kabanguka 
Email:   
 
 
 
LKabanguka@bank-banque-canada.ca  
 
To contact the Bank in relation to this RFP, proponents must use MERX. The Bank will not accept communications 
from proponents by any other means, except as specifically stated in this RFP. 
 
Proponents may only contact the Bank of Canada contacts where specifically instructed to do so in this RFP. All 
other communications in relation to this RFP, including the submission of the proposal, must be done via MERX. 
Proponents and their representatives may not contact other individuals employed or engaged by the Bank 
concerning matters regarding this RFP. When specifically instructed to contact the Bank of Canada contacts, 
communications must be sent in writing. Other communications will not be considered in the RFP process. Any 
proponent that does not follow these instructions may be disqualified. 
 
Proponents shall promptly examine all of the documents comprising this RFP and shall report any errors, 
omissions or ambiguities without delay. Proponents may direct questions or seek additional information in writing 
through MERX on or before the deadline for questions set out in section 1.2 RFP Timetable. It is the responsibility 
of the proponent to seek clarification from the Bank of Canada contacts on any matter it considers to be unclear. 
The Bank is under no obligation to provide responses but may do so at its sole discretion. 
 
1.5 
Protected information 
 
Upon conclusion of the RFP process, or any earlier request by the Bank, proponents shall destroy all information 
and other material prepared in connection with this RFP. Upon the request of the Bank, the proponents will 
provide a certificate confirming compliance with these destruction requirements. 
 
1.6 
All new information to proponents by way of addenda 
 
This RFP may be amended only by an addendum in accordance with this section. If the Bank, for any reason, 
determines that it is necessary to provide additional information relating to this RFP, such information will be 
communicated to all proponents by addenda issued on MERX. Each addendum shall form an integral part of this 
RFP. Such addenda may contain important information, including responses to questions submitted by 
proponents or significant changes to this RFP. 
 
 
1.7 
Amendment or withdrawal of proposals 
 
Proponents may withdraw their proposal prior to the submission deadline via “Withdraw Bid” in MERX to withdraw 
their complete proposal. Proponents may then submit an amended proposal if desired, prior to the submission 
deadline. The proponent is solely responsible for ensuring that the amended proposal is received via MERX prior 
to the submission deadline. 
 
1.8 
Proposals in English or French

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 6]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 4  
Proponents may submit their proposals and any other correspondence to the Bank in the official language of their 
choice, either English or French.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 7]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 5  
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE 
 
These terms of reference set out the rights and obligations of the Bank and participating proponents with respect 
to this RFP. As a covered entity, the Bank may also be responsible for compliance with certain procurement 
requirements under the Canada Free Trade Agreement (See Chapter 5 – Government Procurement, 
https://www.cfta-alec.ca/). 
 
In responding to this RFP, and to be eligible for consideration, each proponent must submit a completed and 
signed submission form that, among other things, acknowledges its acceptance of the RFP Terms of Reference 
as contained hereunder: 
 
(a) 
this RFP process is not intended to create a legally binding bidding process and shall not give rise to the legal 
rights or duties applied to a formal Contract A binding bidding process or any other legal obligations arising 
out of any tendering process contract or collateral contract, and instead shall be governed by the common 
law applicable to direct commercial negotiations; 
 
(b) 
no legal obligation regarding the procurement of any good or service shall be created between the proponent 
and the Bank unless and until a contract is negotiated and signed by both parties; 
 
(c) 
each party waives the right to make any claims (in contract, tort or otherwise) against the other with respect 
to the award of a contract, the failure to award a contract or the failure to honour a proposal; 
 
(d) 
the Bank of Canada is under no obligation to award a contract pursuant to this RFP process and may reduce 
or alter the scope of the statement of work at any time during the RFP process; 
 
(e) 
the Bank of Canada may elect not to consider a proponent whose proposal contains misrepresentations or 
any other inaccurate, misleading or incomplete information or information disclosed without proper 
authorization to do so; 
 
(f) 
the Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion to: 
 
a. accept or reject all or any part of a proposal, including, but not limited to, a specific resource, 
b. select a proposal other than the lowest-cost proposal, and 
c. require proposals to be reviewed against the Bank’s security, protection of personal information or other 
requirements associated with third-party risk management procedures. The Bank may revisit and re-
evaluate the proponent’s proposal or ranking on the basis of any such information; 
 
(g) 
the proponent will bear its own costs associated with, or incurred in, the preparation and presentation of its 
proposal, including, if applicable, costs incurred for interviews or demonstrations; 
 
(h) 
by submitting a proposal, proponents confirm and acknowledge that they have not colluded with any other 
parties in the preparation of their proposal; 
 
(i) 
the proponent consents to the Bank of Canada’s collection of the information as contemplated under this RFP 
for the uses contemplated under this RFP and acknowledges that the Bank of Canada is subject to the Access 
to Information Act (RSC, 1985, c. A-1); 
 
(j) 
the proponent must identify any information in its proposal for which confidentiality is to be maintained by the 
Bank of Canada, subject to legal disclosure requirements. Proposals will, as necessary, be disclosed on a 
confidential basis by the Bank to any advisers retained for the purpose of supporting the evaluation of the 
proposals. 
 
(k) 
proponents acknowledge that the Bank publishes contract awards, which include the term and value of the 
contract;

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 8]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 6  
 
(l) 
when evaluating proposals, the Bank of Canada may request further information from the proponents or third 
parties in order to verify, clarify or supplement the information provided in the proponent’s proposals, and the 
Bank of Canada may revisit and re-evaluate the proponent’s proposal or ranking on the basis of any such 
information; 
 
(m) 
the Bank of Canada may consider the proponent’s past performance on previous contracts with the Bank of 
Canada or with other institutions or any other relevant information when evaluating a proposal; 
 
(n) 
contract negotiations may include requests by the Bank of Canada for improved pricing or an improved 
offering of goods or services from the proponent; 
 
(o) 
a proponent may not at any time directly or indirectly communicate with the media in relation to the RFP or 
any contract awarded pursuant to the RFP without first obtaining the written permission of the Bank of 
Canada; 
 
(p) 
the Bank of Canada makes no guarantee as to the value or volume of work to be assigned to the selected 
proponent. Any agreement entered into pursuant to this RFP process may not be an exclusive contract; 
 
(q) 
while the Bank of Canada does its best to ensure the accuracy of the information contained in the RFP or 
any addenda, it makes no representation, warranty or guarantee in that regard. Any quantities shown or data 
contained in the RFP or provided by way of addenda are estimates only and are for the sole purpose of 
indicating to proponents the general size of the work. It is the proponent’s responsibility to conduct any 
necessary verifications to prepare a proposal in response to the RFP; 
 
(r) 
the RFP process is confidential in nature. All information provided by or obtained from the Bank of Canada in 
any form in connection with the RFP is the sole property of the Bank of Canada and must be treated as 
confidential. It may not be used for any purpose other than replying to the RFP and the performance of any 
subsequent contract and must not be disclosed without prior written authorization from the Bank of Canada; 
 
(s) 
proponents warrant that they have not engaged in any unethical or illegal practices, including activities such 
as bid rigging, price fixing, bribery, fraud, misrepresentation, coercion or collusion that could compromise the 
integrity of the competitive process, and acknowledge the Bank’s discretion to exclude any proponent 
engaging in such activities from the RFP and any future procurement processes; 
 
 
(t) 
the proponent acknowledges and agrees that depending on the specific requirement and how the procured 
goods or services may interact with the Bank’s accounting systems and processes, service providers 
providing, or scheduled to provide during the term of the proposed contract, assurance services to the Bank 
may be determined to be ineligible to provide the procured goods or services. Similarly, the selected 
proponent may, during the term of the proposed contract with the Bank as contemplated under this RFP, be 
ineligible to provide assurance services to the Bank; 
 
(u) 
the Bank of Canada may cancel this RFP process at any time; 
 
(v) 
the parties also acknowledge that these terms are: 
i. 
included for greater certainty and are intended to be interpreted broadly and separately (with no 
particular provision intended to limit the scope of any other provision), 
ii. 
non-exhaustive (and shall not be construed as intending to limit the pre-existing rights of the parties 
to engage in pre-contractual discussions in accordance with the common law governing direct 
commercial negotiations), and 
iii. 
governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws of the province or territory 
within which the Bank of Canada is located and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 9]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 7  
3. EVALUATION AND CONTRACT NEGOTIATION 
 
3.1  
Evaluation of proposals 
 
The Bank has established a team to evaluate the proposals. All decisions as to the degree to which a proposal 
meets the requirements of this RFP will be made by the evaluation team. 
 
The Bank will conduct the evaluation of proposals in the following stages: 
 
Stage 1. Mandatory submission requirements 
Stage 1 will consist of a review to determine which proposals comply with all the mandatory submission 
requirements. If a proposal fails to satisfy all the mandatory submission requirements, the Bank may issue the 
proponent a rectification notice identifying the deficiencies and providing the proponent an opportunity to rectify 
the deficiencies. The rectification period will begin to run from the date and time that the Bank issues a rectification 
notice to the proponent. If the proponent fails to satisfy the mandatory submission requirements within the 
rectification period, its proposal will be rejected. 
 
The mandatory submission requirements are set out in section 4.3 RFP Particulars – Mandatory submission 
requirements. 
 
Stage 2. Evaluation 
Stage 2 will consist of the following three (3) sub-stages: 
 
a. Mandatory criteria 
The Bank will review the proposals to determine whether the mandatory criteria as set out in section 4.4 
RFP Particulars – Mandatory criteria have been met. Failure of the proponent to meet any of the 
mandatory criteria will result in their proposal being disqualified. 
b. Minimum qualification requirements 
The Bank will review the proposals to determine whether the minimum qualification requirements as set 
out in Appendix C1 / C2/ C3 (as applicable) have been met. Failure of the proponent to meet the minimum 
qualification requirements will result in their proposal being disqualified. 
c. Rated criteria 
If compliant with the applicable mandatory criteria and minimum qualification requirements, the Bank will 
evaluate each qualified proposal based on the non-price rated criteria as set out in section 4.5 RFP 
Particulars – Rated criteria and Appendix D1/D2/D3 (as applicable). 
 
Stage 3. Presentation/Demonstration (virtual) 
As part of the evaluation process, 
- 
up to seven (7) top-ranked proponents for service category 1; and 
- 
up to nine (9) top-ranked proponents for service category 3 
 
May be invited to presentations with the Evaluation Committee. These presentations will validate proponents’ 
ability to deliver the required services and will be assessed on a pass/fail basis. Proponents may not disclose 
pricing information at this stage.  Presentations will not be required for service category 2. 
Stage 4. Pricing 
Stage 4 will consist of a review and scoring of the submitted pricing of each qualified proposal in accordance with 
the price evaluation method set out in section 4.6 RFP Particulars – Price evaluation method. The evaluation of 
price will be undertaken after the evaluation of mandatory requirements and non-price rated criteria has been 
completed. 
 
If a proponent’s pricing appears to be abnormally low in relation to the deliverables, the Bank may require the 
proponent to provide a detailed explanation of the pricing information to account for the low level of price and 
confirm that all requirements in respect of the deliverables have been taken into account. The Bank also reserves

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 10]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 8  
the right to require contract security in the form of a performance bond. If the proponent is unable to satisfactorily 
account for the abnormally low pricing, the Bank may reject the proposal. 
 
Stage 5. Cumulative score 
At Stage 5, the scores from Stage 2, Stage 3 and Stage 4 will be totalled and, subject to the terms of this RFP, 
the highest-scoring proponents within each service category will be invited to negotiate agreements based on the 
Form of Agreement in Appendix F, if reference checks are successful. In the event of a tie between proponents, 
the selected proponent will be decided by way of the highest score on the rated criteria. 
 
The proponents with the highest final cumulative scores within the applicable categories or overall evaluation will 
be identified as the selected proponents. 
 
For clarity, awards will be made on a category-by-category basis. A proponent is not required to be the highest 
ranked across all categories to be selected. 
 
3.2  
Contract negotiation process 
 
The selected proponent(s) will be notified and invited to enter into contract negotiations. The standard terms and 
conditions for Bank agreements are set out in Appendix F and form the basis for negotiations between the Bank 
and the selected proponent(s). If negotiations are not successful within a reasonable time, the Bank may, in its 
sole discretion, discontinue negotiations and enter into negotiations with the next-highest-ranked proponent. The 
Bank may move to subsequent proponents as many times as necessary to finalize a contract, or until the Bank 
elects to cancel the RFP process. 
 
Prior to the commencement of, or, at the discretion of the Bank, concurrent with, the contract negotiations, the 
selected proponent(s) may be required to complete a third-party vendor risk assessment with questions and/or 
document requests related to risk areas as part of the Bank’s third-party risk management process. 
 
3.3  
Time period for negotiations 
 
The Bank intends to conclude negotiations and finalize the agreement with the top-ranked proponent within a 
period of thirty (30) calendar days, commencing from the date the Bank invites the top-ranked proponent to enter 
negotiations. A proponent invited to enter into direct contract negotiations should be prepared to provide all 
requested information in a timely fashion and conduct its negotiations expeditiously. 
 
 
3.4  
Notification to other proponents 
 
Once contracts are executed by the Bank and proponents, the other proponents will be notified directly in writing 
or will be notified by public posting of the outcome of the procurement process when applicable. 
 
3.5  
Debriefing 
 
Proponents may request a debriefing after receipt of a notification of the outcome of the procurement process. All 
requests must be in writing to the Bank of Canada contacts and must be made within fifteen (15) days of such 
notification. 
 
3.6  
Procurement protest procedure 
 
If a proponent wishes to challenge the RFP process, it should provide written notice to the Director of Procurement 
of the Bank. The notice should be sent to the following address: info_procurement@bank-banque-canada.ca.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 11]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 9

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 12]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 10  
4. RFP PARTICULARS 
 
4.1  
Statement of work 
 
Background 
The Bank employs approximately 2,000 employees across a diverse range of business and operational functions. 
Employees are organized across Corporate Administration departments, including Human Resources, 
Information Technology, Financial Services, Corporate Services and Audit, as well as Analytics departments 
responsible for economic, financial and policy research and analysis. Most employees are located at the Bank's 
Head Office in Ottawa, with additional operational centres and regional offices located across Canada. 
 
Additional information on the Bank of Canada can be found at www.bankofcanada.ca. 
 
Objective 
The Bank is seeking proposals from qualified, progressive, and innovative Service Providers to deliver talent, 
learning and organizational development services on an as-required basis.  Services may include the design and 
delivery of customized facilitation and team effectiveness engagements, the development and delivery of learning 
programs and solutions ranging from off-the-shelf to fully customized offerings, and strategic human resources, 
talent management, and organizational development consulting services. Providers will be engaged based on 
their expertise and capacity to address specific corporate and client requirements. 
 
The Bank may require services including but not limited to the following: 
 
CATEGORY 1: LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND ASSESSMENTS 
Requirements 
Estimated Demand 
Engagement Process 
▪ Bank-wide Leadership and 
management development programs 
(emerging, mid-level, senior)  
▪ Bank-wide Employee competency 
development and professional 
skills programs  
▪ Off-the-shelf or tailored programs to meet 
occasional or one-time needs  
▪ Custom curriculum and instructional 
design  
Leadership, skill and psychometric 
assessments used as program 
components  
The Bank anticipates a 
requirement for up to 10 
custom workshops and one 
possible larger scale 
curriculum design and 
delivery over the term of the 
agreement. Demand may 
increase and/or be adjusted 
from year to year based on 
evolving operational needs, 
project volumes, and 
resource capacity 
requirements. 
The Bank intends to solicit 
the services based on the 
following thresholds: 
≤ $50,000: One (1) 
quote required; direct 
award permitted. 
> $50,000 and < 
$100,000: Two (2) 
quotes required. 
≥ $100,000: Invitational 
RFx issued to all 
selected firms*. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CATEGORY 2: HR ADVISORY 
Requirements 
Estimated Demand 
Engagement Process 
▪ 
Change management and change 
strategy execution, design, and 
implementation support  
▪ 
Competency framework development 
and validation  
▪ 
Culture and engagement strategy  
The Bank anticipates a 
requirement for up to 7 small 
(<$50k) and 4 medium/large 
engagements across the 
term of the agreement; 
however, demand may 
The Bank intends to solicit 
the services based on the 
following thresholds: 
≤ $50,000: One (1) 
quote required; direct 
award permitted.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 13]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 11  
▪ 
Learning strategy, needs assessment, 
and evaluation consulting  
▪ 
Succession planning design and 
facilitation  
▪ 
Performance management framework 
design and development  
▪ 
Leadership development and talent 
management strategy and design  
▪ 
Future of work insights, assessment and 
strategy 
▪ 
HIPO identification methodologies and 
accelerated development architecture  
▪ 
Workforce skills planning and skills 
architecture development 
▪ 
HR strategy consulting  
increase and/or be adjusted 
from year to year based on 
evolving operational needs, 
project volumes, and 
resource capacity 
requirements. 
> $50,000 and < 
$250,000: Two (2) 
quotes required. 
≥ $250,000: Invitational 
RFx issued to all 
selected firms*. 
 
 
CATEGORY 3: FACILITATION TEAM EFFECTIVENESS 
Requirements  
Estimated Demand 
Engagement Process 
▪ Team visioning, norming, and 
effectiveness sessions  
▪ Strategic planning and problem-solving 
facilitation  
▪ Retreat and off-site meeting design and 
delivery  
▪ Climate and culture conversations  
▪ Cross-functional or multi-team workshops  
▪ Brainstorming, co-design, and 
participatory engagement sessions 
▪ Follow-up team and/or individual 
coaching. 
 
The Bank anticipates a 
requirement for up to 15 
engagements of variable 
size and scope annually 
across the term of the 
agreement; however, 
demand may increase 
and/or be adjusted from year 
to year based on evolving 
operational needs, project 
volumes, and resource 
capacity requirements. 
The Bank intends to solicit 
the services based on the 
following thresholds: 
≤ $20,000: One (1) 
quote required; direct 
award permitted. 
> $20,000: Quotes 
solicited from a 
minimum of three (3) 
qualified firms. 
 
 
 
For clarity, after the RFP process is complete, and contracts are in place, the Bank will solicit work only from the 
firms that have been selected under this RFP for the applicable service category(ies). The process used to solicit 
work will depend on the estimated value of the requirement and the thresholds set out in the table above for that 
service category. For lower-value requirements, the Bank may request a quote from one selected firm and 
proceed by direct award where permitted. For mid-range requirements, the Bank will request quotes from at least 
two selected firms within the applicable service category and will award the work based on the Bank’s assessment 
of price, the firm’s ability to meet the requirement, and availability. For requirements at or above the applicable 
invitational RFx threshold, the Bank will invite all selected firms in the applicable service category to participate in 
a competitive RFx process. 
 
*All RFx submissions will be evaluated by a Bank evaluation team in accordance with the evaluation criteria set 
out in each RFx. As applicable, evaluations will consider proposed methodology, experience and qualifications 
as well as price. The firm with the highest scoring proposal in an RFx process will be awarded the 
engagement/contract.  
 
Proponents may submit a proposal for one or more of the service category(ies) (Learning & Development, 
HR Advisory, Facilitation team effectiveness). Proponents must clearly identify in their proposal the 
specific service category(ies) for which they are submitting. 
 
Service Providers will be expected to develop concrete strategies and apply system-thinking to the solutions and 
services they provide. They will:

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 14]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 12  
 
• 
Be up to date with the latest developments in their field and will work with Bank representatives to gain 
an understanding of client goals to ensure that services align and support objectives; 
• 
Design, develop and deliver services based on industry best practices;  
• 
Customize solutions based on the client goals and needs; and  
• 
Provide additional services, tools and/or resources as required.  
 
4.2 
Contract term 
 
The Bank intends to enter into agreements based on the form attached as Appendix F with a maximum of five (5) 
proponents for the Learning and Development programs and assessment category; three (3) proponents for the 
HR Advisory category; and seven (7) proponents for the Facilitation and team effectiveness category. The term 
of each agreement will be for a period of three (3) years, with the option to extend for up to two (2) additional one-
year terms, if required. 
 
4.3 
Mandatory submission requirements 
 
(a) Timeline 
Each proposal must be submitted by the submission deadline as per section 1.2 RFP Timetable. 
 
(b) Submission form 
Each proposal must include a Submission form (Appendix A) completed and signed by the proponent. 
This is a Word file that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
(c) Mandatory criteria response form(s) 
Each proposal must include completed mandatory criteria response form (Appendix B1, B2, B3 as 
applicable) for each category a firm is submitting for. This is an Excel file that can be downloaded from 
MERX. 
 
(d) Minimum qualification requirements 
Each proposal must include a completed Minimum qualification requirements response form (Appendix 
C1, C2, C3 as applicable) for each category a firm is submitting for with responses to each question. This 
is an Excel file that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
(e) Rated criteria response form(s) 
Each proposal must include completed Rated criteria response forms (Appendix D1, D2, D3 as 
applicable) for each category a firm is submitting for with responses to each question. This is a Word file 
that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
(f) Pricing form 
Each proposal must include a completed Pricing form (Appendix E) that complies with the instructions 
set out. This is an Excel file that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
(g) Environmental, social and governance questionnaire 
Each proposal must include a completed Environmental, social and governance questionnaire (Appendix 
F) with responses to each question. This is an Excel file that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
(h) Form of agreement  
Each proposal must include a Form of agreement (Appendix G) completed and signed by the proponent. 
This is a Word file that can be downloaded from MERX. 
 
4.4  
Mandatory criteria 
 
Mandatory criteria category

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 15]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 13  
Appendix B1 – Learning and development programs and assessments 
a) Bilingualism: Each proposal must provide written confirmation of the ability to provide al
services, materials and solutions in both English and French. 
b) Security Clearance: All Service Provider resources involved in the delivery of services must have the ability
to meet the Bank’s Reliability clearance requirements. This will include electronic fingerprints, a crimina
record check, a credit check, and potentially a security screening interview. 
c) Accessibly: As a Crown corporation, the Bank is required to comply with the Accessible Canada Act (ACA)
All digital learning content developed must comply with digital accessibility standards such as CAN/ASC 
EN 301 549:2024 Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services (EN 301 549:2021 and the Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). 
Appendix B2 – HR advisory 
a) Bilingualism: Each proposal must provide written confirmation of the ability to provide al
services, materials and solutions in both English and French. 
b) Security Clearance: All Service Provider resources involved in the delivery of services must have the ability
to meet the Bank’s Reliability clearance requirements. This will include electronic fingerprints, a crimina
record check, a credit check, and potentially a security screening interview. 
Appendix B3 – Facilitation and team effectiveness 
a) Security Clearance: All Service Provider resources involved in the delivery of services must have the ability
to meet the Bank’s Reliability clearance requirements. This will include electronic fingerprints, s crimina
record check, a credit check, and potentially a security screening interview. 
b) Accessibly:  As a Crown corporation, the Bank is required to comply with the Accessible Canada Act (ACA)
All digital learning content developed must comply with digital accessibility standards such as CAN/ASC 
EN 301 549:2024 Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services (EN 301 549:2021 and the Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). 
 
4.5  
Rated criteria 
 
The following sets out categories, weightings and descriptions of the rated criteria of the RFP. Proponents that 
do not meet a minimum threshold score for a category will not proceed to the next stage of the evaluation process. 
 
Non-price rated criteria category 
Weighting 
Minimum threshold 
Appendix C1/C2/C3  
Minimum qualification requirements 
Pass / Faill 
Proponents must respond “yes” to all 
minimum qualification questions to move on 
to the evaluation of Appendix D 
Appendix D1 – Learning & Development Programs and Assessments 
Corporate Profile 
5 points 
N/A 
Key Personnel and Roster 
15 points 
Curriculum & Program Design Capability 
35 points 
Measurement Approach 
5 points 
Relationship Management 
5 points 
Value-add 
5 points 
Relevant Experience and References 
5 points 
Appendix D2 - HR Advisory 
Corporate Profile 
5 points 
N/A 
Key Personnel and Roster 
15 points 
Methodology and Advisory Approach 
35 points 
Thought Leadership & Innovation 
5 points 
Relationship Management 
5 points

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 16]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 14  
Value-add 
5 points 
Relevant Experience and References 
5 points 
Appendix D3 – Facilitation and Team Effectiveness 
Corporate Profile 
10 points 
N/A 
Key Personnel and Roster 
20 points 
Facilitation Methodology 
30 points 
Value-add 
5 points 
Relevant Experience and References 
10 points 
Presentations  
Per section 3.1 Stage 3, at the Bank’s discretion, top-ranked proponents may be invited to participate in presentations. 
Presentations  
PASS / FAIL  
Pass 
Price  
Price evaluation (see Section 4.6 below) 
25 points 
N/A 
Total points 
100 points 
 
 
Proponents must complete the applicable appendices for each service category for which they are 
submitting a proposal, using the format provided. This may include Appendix D1, Appendix D2, Appendix 
D3, or any applicable combination. 
 
Proponents will be evaluated only for the service category or categories for which they submit a response. 
 
4.6 
Price evaluation method 
 
Pricing is worth 25 points of the total score. 
Price will be evaluated separately for each service category for which a proponent submits a proposal. Proponents 
will only be evaluated for the service category(ies) for which they submit a complete technical and pricing 
response. 
 
For each applicable service category, proponents must complete Appendix D – Pricing Form and provide an 
Evaluated Category Price based on the standardized pricing scenario set out in Appendix D. The Evaluated 
Category Price must include all fees, charges, subscriptions, licences, access costs, advisory costs, 
implementation or onboarding fees, and any other costs required to deliver the scenario for the applicable service 
category. 
 
Proponents may propose different models, fee structures, bundles, or service packages. However, for evaluation 
purposes, each proponent must price the same standardized scenario for each service category proposed. Where 
a proponent’s model includes certain services at no additional cost, the proponent must identify those services 
as included and assign a $0 incremental cost in the pricing breakdown. 
 
The Bank will calculate the Evaluated Category Price for each applicable service category using the completed 
Appendix E – Pricing Form. The Evaluated Category Price will be based on the total cost of the standardized 
scenario over the initial three-year term. Option-year pricing, including maximum annual percentage increases, 
may be considered for affordability and contract planning purposes and may be used in the evaluation if expressly 
identified in Appendix E. 
 
For each service category, pricing points will be calculated using the following formula: 
 
𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑠𝑡 evaluated category 𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒 ÷ 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡’𝑠 evaluated category 𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒 × 25 points = 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡’𝑠 𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑛𝑔

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 17]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 15  
score for that service category 
 
Prices will be evaluated on a category-by-category basis. A proponent is not required to submit pricing for all 
service categories. A proponent that submits pricing for more than one service category will receive a separate 
price evaluation for each applicable category. 
 
The standardized pricing scenario is for evaluation purposes only and does not constitute a commitment by the 
Bank to purchase any minimum volume of services, licences, consultations, document reviews, conference 
passes, or related services. Actual requirements may vary during the term of any resulting agreement. 
 
The Bank may seek clarification of pricing where required to confirm the completeness, consistency, or application 
of the pricing submitted. Clarifications will not permit a proponent to revise its pricing or materially alter its financial 
proposal, except where expressly permitted by the RFP. 
 
All travel and related expenses, if applicable, will be subject to the Bank’s guidelines. 
 
Proponents must not include pricing information in any other portion of its proposal.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 18]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 16  
APPENDIX A. SUBMISSION FORM 
 
1. Proponent information 
Full legal name of proponent 
[enter your response here] 
Any other relevant name under which the 
proponent conducts business 
[enter your response here] 
Proponent address 
 
[enter your response here] 
 
Phone number 
[enter your response here] 
RFP proponent contact person and title 
and contact information (email and 
phone) 
[enter your response here] 
 
2. Acknowledgement of Terms of Reference 
The proponent acknowledges that this RFP process will be governed by the specific Terms of Reference set out 
in this RFP, and that, among other things, the Terms of Reference confirm that this procurement process does 
not constitute a legally binding bidding process, and that there will be no legal relationship or obligations created 
unless and until the Bank of Canada and a selected proponent enter into a contract. 
 
3. Ability to provide statement of work 
The proponent certifies that it has carefully examined this RFP and has a clear and comprehensive knowledge of 
the statement of work required. The proponent represents and warrants its ability to meet the requirements 
detailed in the statement of work in accordance with the terms of the RFP for the pricing provided in its proposal 
and acknowledges that the statement of work may be adjusted if the proponent is selected to negotiate with the 
Bank of Canada. The proponent has provided a list of any subcontractors to be used to complete the proposed 
contract. 
 
4. Financial proposal 
The proponent certifies that it has submitted its rates in accordance with section 4. RFP Particulars. The 
proponent confirms that the financial proposal provided is accurate. The proponent acknowledges that any 
inaccurate, misleading or incomplete information, including withdrawn or altered pricing, could adversely impact 
the acceptance of its proposal or its eligibility for future work. 
 
5. Addenda 
The proponent is deemed to have read and accepted all addenda issued by the Bank of Canada prior to the final 
date for issuing addenda. The onus remains on the proponent to make any necessary amendments to its proposal 
based on the addenda. The proponent is requested to confirm that it has received all addenda by listing the 
addenda numbers or, if no addenda were issued, by writing the word “None” on the following line: 
____________________________. Proponents that fail to complete this section will be deemed to have received 
all posted addenda. 
6. 
Conflict of interest 
Prior to completing this portion of the Submission form, proponents should refer to the following definition of 
conflict of interest:

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 19]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 17  
“Conflict of Interest” includes, but is not limited to, any situation or circumstance where: 
 
1. 
in relation to the bidding process, the proponent has an unfair advantage or engages in conduct, 
directly or indirectly, that may give it an unfair advantage, including but not limited to:  
1.1 having, or having access to, information in the preparation of its proposal that is confidential 
and not available to other proponents;  
1.2 communicating with any person with a view to influencing preferred treatment in the RFP 
process; 
1.3 engaging in conduct that compromises, or could be seen to compromise, the integrity of 
the open and competitive RFP process and render that process non-competitive and 
unfair; 
2. 
in relation to the performance of its contractual obligations contemplated in the contract that is 
the subject of this procurement, the proponent’s other commitments, relationships or financial 
interests could, or could be seen to:  
2.1 exercise an improper influence over the objective, unbiased and impartial exercise of the 
proponent’s independent judgment; 
2.2 compromise, impair or be incompatible with the effective performance of the proponent’s 
contractual obligations. 
 
Proponents must clearly state in their proposal that:  
1. there was no conflict of interest in preparing its proposal; and  
2. there is no foreseeable conflict of interest in performing the contractual obligations 
contemplated in the RFP;  
3. OR, if there is a conflict of interest, proponents must provide full details on the nature of the 
conflict of interest and any steps taken to mitigate it. If a proposal does not declare a conflict 
of interest, then the proponent will be deemed to have no conflict of interest with respect to 
the submission of a proposal or the performance of a potential contract. 
 
7. No forced labour or child labour 
The proponent and any subcontractor to be used to complete the proposed contract:  
1. 
do not use or tolerate the use of forced labour or child labour in any part of their activities or supply 
chains;  
2. 
have implemented and maintain rigorous and well-developed policies and due diligence processes 
to prevent and mitigate the risk of such practices in their activities and supply chains; and  
3. 
comply with the Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains Act (SC 2023, 
c 9), as amended or replaced. 
 
 
 
Signature of proponent representative 
 
Name and Title 
 
Date: 
I have authority to bind the proponent.

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 20]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 18

[[SOURCE: RFP 2026-026 - Talent, Learning and Organizational Development Services.pdf | PAGE: 21]]
Bank of Canada RFP No. 2026-026  
 
Page 19  
APPENDIX B. MANDATORY CRITERIA RESPONSE FORM 
Under separate attachment in MERX. 
 
APPENDIX C. MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS RESPONSE FORM 
Under separate attachment in MERX. 
APPENDIX D. RATED CRITERIA RESPONSE FORM 
Under separate attachment in MERX. 
 
APPENDIX E. PRICING FORM 
Under separate attachment in MERX. 
 
APPENDIX F. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE 
QUESTIONNAIRE 
Under separate attachment in MERX. 
 
APPENDIX G. FORM OF AGREEMENT  
Under separate attachment in MERX.